index:1
FST was used to describe the variation among populations and was calculated using biosys (Swofford & Selander 1981).
FST was used to describe the variation among populations and was calculated using biosys (Swofford & Selander 1981).

index:2
The banding pattern was visualized by autoradiography for 12 h and analyzed by Gelworks 1D advanced software in Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
The banding pattern was visualized by autoradiography for 12 h and analyzed by Gelworks 1D advanced software in Shanghai Institute of Biochemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences.

index:3
The gel was then stained with SYBR Green-I (FMC Bioproducts) for 15 min, visualized by UVP system and analyzed by Gelworks 1D advanced software.
The gel was then stained with SYBR Green-I (FMC Bioproducts) for 15 min, visualized by UVP system and analyzed by Gelworks 1D advanced software.

index:4
We used Detrended Correspondence Analysis in PC-ORD (McCune, 1993) to depict multivariate changes in dominance of species neighborhoods for each focal species in recently burned and long-unburned sites.
We used Detrended Correspondence Analysis in PC-ORD (McCune, 1993) to depict multivariate changes in dominance of species neighborhoods for each focal species in recently burned and long-unburned sites.

index:5
The molecule is rich in proline residues (13%) and analysis of its amino acid sequence with PONDR [21] indicates that in the absence of other viral components at least the N-terminal half of the subunit would be disordered.
The molecule is rich in proline residues (13%) and analysis of its amino acid sequence with PONDR21 indicates that in the absence of other viral components at least the N-terminal half of the subunit would be disordered.

index:6
deviation of 2.9A as determined with program SHP [22] ), although there is no sequence similarity between them.
deviation of 2.9 A˚ as determined with program SHP22), although there is no sequence similarity between them.

index:7
PREDATOR
EMBO J.

index:8
TMHMM
Mol.

index:9
Secondary structure elements of our P16 model (red), secondary structure prediction (PREDATOR [49], green) and transmembrane helix prediction (TMHMM [47], brown), aligned with the amino acid sequence (amino acids visible in the electron density are in red).
c, Secondary structure elements of our P16 model (red), secondary structure prediction (PREDATOR49, green) and transmembrane helix prediction (TMHMM47, brown), aligned with the amino acid sequence (amino acids visible in the electron density are in red).

index:10
*R-factor=[FORMULA DID NOT COPY] where h are the unique reflection indices, Fo are the observed structure factors and Fc are the structure factors obtained from inversion of the solvent-flattened map (SHELLSCALE; D.I.S., unpublished program).
Correlation coefficient = Σh(<|Fo|h>-|Fo|h)(<|Fc|h>-|Fc|h)/Σh[(<|Fo|h>-|Fo|h)2-(<|Fc|h>-|Fc|h)2]1/2 where h are the unique reflection indices, Fo are the observed structure factors and Fc are the structure factors obtained from inversion of the solvent-flattened map (SHELLSCALE; DIS, unpublished program).

index:11
†Correlation coefficient =[FORMULA DID NOT COPY] where h are the unique reflection indices, Fo are the observed structure factors and Fc are the structure factors obtained from inversion of the solvent-flattened map (SHELLSCALE; D.I.S., unpublished program)
† Correlation coefficient ¼ Sh(kjFojhl 2 jFojh)(kjFcjhl 2 jFcjh)/Sh[(kjFojhl 2 jFojh)2 2 (kjFcjhl 2 jFcjh)2]1/2 where h are the unique reflection indices, Fo are the observed structure factors and Fc are the structure factors obtained from inversion of the solvent-flattened map (SHELLSCALE; D.I.S., unpublished program).

index:12
Although postulated to have an analogous function [31], polypeptide IIIa is larger than expected for a P30 homologue and is a less attractive candidate than polypeptide VIII, which is proline-rich, is almost exactly the expected length (110 residues) and possesses an N-terminal sequence that PONDR [21] predicts to be disordered.
Although postulated to have an analogous function31, polypeptide IIIa is larger than expected for NATURE | VOL 432 | 4 NOVEMBER 2004 | www.nature.com/nature  a P30 homologue and is a less attractive candidate than polypeptide VIII, which is proline-rich, is almost exactly the expected length (110 residues) and possesses an N-terminal sequence that PONDR21 predicts to be disordered.

index:13
Data were analysed with DENZO [41] and the resolution limit was determined with TRIM_DENZO (D.I.S., unpublished program).
Data were analysed with DENZO41 and the resolution limit was determined with TRIM_DENZO (D.I.S., unpublished program).

index:14
Data were scaled with a special version of SCALEPACK [41].
Data were scaled with a special version of SCALEPACK41.

index:15
For the native data and SeMet data, reflections with fractional partialities of 0.7 or more and 0.5, respectively, were scaled to full intensity and incorporated into the data set as fully recorded reflections (program POST: D.I.S.
For the native data and SeMet data, reflections with fractional partialities of 0.7 or more and 0.5, respectively, were scaled to full intensity and incorporated into the data set as fully recorded reflections (program POST: D.I.S.

index:16
Intensities were converted to structure factor amplitudes with TRUNCATE [42].
Intensities were converted to structure factor amplitudes with TRUNCATE42.

index:17
The position and orientation of this model were refined against the experimental data using X-PLOR 3.1 (ref.
The position and orientation of this model were refined against the experimental data using X-PLOR 3.1 (ref.

index:18
A 2Fo - Fc map was calculated for each cell type (to 4.2A resolution) with the corresponding model phases, which were then refined by iterative solvent flattening and 60-fold averaging; Fc was calculated from the starting model or from Fourier transformation of the modified map (see Table 2) (program GAP; D.I.S.
A 2F o 2 F c map was calculated for each cell type (to 4.2 A˚ resolution) with the corresponding model phases, which were then refined by iterative solvent flattening and 60-fold averaging; F c was calculated from the starting model or from Fourier transformation of the modified map (see Table 2) (program GAP; D.I.S.

index:19
and J.M.G., unpublished program, and CCP4 programs [42]).
and J.M.G., unpublished program, and CCP4 programs42).

index:20
The SeMet and native cell 1 data were scaled in resolution shells with the use of SHELLSCALE (D.I.S., unpublished program).
Calculation of the SeMet difference map The SeMet and native cell 1 data were scaled in resolution shells with the use of SHELLSCALE (D.I.S., unpublished program).

index:21
The P3 N- and C-terminal regions were built into the averaged map of cell 2 by using O [46].
Model building The P3 N- and C-terminal regions were built into the averaged map of cell 2 by using O46.

index:22
Analysing the relative positions of methionine residues and predicted transmembrane helices (program TMHMM [47])
The small holes in the membrane close to the five-fold axes are the transmembrane helices of P16.

index:23
All structures were brought into conformity with expected backbone conformations and side chains were built with program CALPHA [48].
All structures were brought into conformity with expected backbone conformations and side chains were built with program CALPHA48.

index:24
Correlation coefficient = Σh(<|Fo|h>-|Fo|h)(<|Fc|h>-|Fc|h)/Σh[(<|Fo|h>-|Fo|h)2-(<|Fc|h>-|Fc|h)2]1/2 where h are the unique reflection indices, Fo are the observed structure factors and Fc are the structure factors obtained from inversion of the solvent-flattened map (SHELLSCALE; DIS, unpublished program).
Correlation coefficient = Σh(<|Fo|h>-|Fo|h)(<|Fc|h>-|Fc|h)/Σh[(<|Fo|h>-|Fo|h)2-(<|Fc|h>-|Fc|h)2]1/2 where h are the unique reflection indices, Fo are the observed structure factors and Fc are the structure factors obtained from inversion of the solvent-flattened map (SHELLSCALE; DIS, unpublished program).

index:25
Superposition was carried out on 256 residues from domain 1 with the program LSQKAB [50].
Superposition was carried out on 256 residues from domain 1 with the program LSQKAB50.

index:26
The bromide sites were found with SOLVE [42] and molecular replacement was done with AmoRe [43].
The bromide sites were found with SOLVE42 and molecular replacement was done with AmoRe43.

index:27
Phase combination and extension were accomplished with SIGMAA [44] and DM [45], respectively.
Phase combination and extension were accomplished with SIGMAA44 and DM45, respectively.

index:28
Refinement was done with CNS [46].
The work was supported by the NIH.

index:29
Iterative rounds of model building in the program O [47] were carried out by using Fo - Fc omit maps,coupled with Powell minimization and individual B-factor refinement, until Rfree converged
Iterative rounds of model building in the program O47 were carried out by using F o 2 F c omit maps, coupled with Powell minimization and individual B-factor refinement, until R free converged.

index:30
Data were analysed by nonlinear regression in WinNONLIN [48].
Data were analysed by nonlinear regression in WinNONLIN48.

index:31
Association constants for any monomer–dimer equilibria obtained from WinNONLIN were converted from absorbance (K2,abs) to molar units (K2,M) with the equation K2,M = K2,abs(1l)/2,
Association constants for any monomer–dimer equilibria obtained from WinNONLIN were converted from absorbance (K 2,abs) to molar units (K 2,M) with the equation K 2,M ¼ K 2,abs(1l)/2, where l is the path  © 2005 Nature Publishing Group  191  ARTICLES  NATURE|Vol 438|10 November 2005  length of the cell (1.2 cm) and 1 is the molar extinction coefficient at 280 nm (36,840 and 32,430 M21 cm21, respectively, for NR1 and NR2A, estimated from the amino acid sequences disregarding disulphide bonds).

index:32
Solvent density and viscosity were calculated with Sednterp [49].
Solvent density and viscosity were calculated with Sednterp49.

index:33
Data were analyzed with the continuous distribution c(S) Lamm equation implemented in Sedfit [2] using every other scan.
Data  3  were analyzed with the continuous distribution c(S) Lamm equation implemented in Sedfit2 using every other scan.

index:34
The global fit in WinNONLIN included three rotor speeds (13,000, 18,000, and 25,000 rpm) and three loading concentrations (0.2, 0.4, 0.8 mg/ml).
The global fit in WinNONLIN included three rotor speeds (13,000, 18,000, and 25,000 rpm) and three loading concentrations (0.2, 0.4, 0.8 mg/ml).

index:35
All data sets were processed with HKL (Otwinowski & Minor, 1997) and the space group and data statistics were determined using XPREP (Bruker AXS, Madison, WI, USA).
the space group and data statistics were determined using Our original crystal structure of wild-type Wind (PDB code XPREP (Bruker AXS, Madison, WI, USA).

index:36
The Wind-His, Y53S and Y53F structures were solved by molecular replacement using EPMR (Kissinger et al., 1999) with search models taken from the His-Wind structure (PDB code 1ovn).
with search models taken from the His-Wind structure (PDB code 1ovn).

index:37
The Y55K mutant proved to be more problematic and so PHASER (McCoy et al., 2005) was employed.
The Y55K mutant proved to be more problematic and so Wild-type Wind-His protein (with the His6 tag at the CPHASER (McCoy et al., 2005) was employed.

index:38
The model was checked and rebuilt manually from the bias-minimized electron-density map from RESOLVE.
The model was checked and rebuilt manually from the bias-minimized electron-density map from RESOLVE.

index:39
Prime-and-switch phasing in RESOLVE (Terwilliger, 2004) was used to minimize model bias.
Prime-and-switch phasing in RESOLVE (Terwilliger, 2004) was used to minimize model bias.

index:40
All structures were refined against F using TLS refinement in REFMAC (Murshudov et al., 1997), alternating with model building in real space using 2mFo - DFc and mFo - DFc maps in COOT (Emsley & Cowtan, 2004).
All structures were refined against F using TLS refinement in REFMAC (Murshudov et al., 1997), alternating with model building in real space using 2mFo  DFc and mFo  DFc maps in COOT (Emsley & Cowtan, 2004).

index:41
The structures were validated with PROCHECK (Laskowski et al., 1993).
The structures were validated with PROCHECK (Laskowski et al., 1993).

index:42
Figures were drawn with CHIMERA (Pettersen et al., 2004), MOLSCRIPT (Kraulis, 1991) and RASTER3D (Merritt & Bacon, 1997).
Figures were drawn with CHIMERA (Pettersen et al., 2004), MOLSCRIPT (Kraulis, 1991) and RASTER3D (Merritt & Bacon, 1997).

index:43
All GRID calculations were performed for the whole volume of the protein using a grid spacing of 1.0 A˚.
All GRID calculations were performed for the whole volume of the protein using a ˚.

index:44
The hydrophobic molecular-interac-tion fields at the surfaces of the different mutants were analysed using a DRY probe in the program package GRID (Goodford, 1985).
Hydrophobic molecularinteraction field  The hydrophobic molecular-interaction fields at the surfaces of the different mutants were analysed using a DRY probe in the program package GRID (Goodford, 1985).

index:45
The CSI (conformational similarity index) rela-tive to His-Wind, calculated using ESCET, is in the range of 90% for all the structures except for the Y55K mutant, which has a CSI of around 70%.
The CSI (conformational similarity index) relative to His-Wind, calculated using ESCET, is in the range of 90% for all the structures except for the Y55K mutant, which has a CSI of around 70%.

index:46
The program ESCET (Schneider, 2002) was used to determine confor-mationally invariant regions between different pairs of mutants.
The program ESCET (Schneider, 2002) was used to determine conformationally invariant regions between different pairs of mutants.

index:47
6 were estimated using a DRY (hydrophobic) probe in the program GRID (Goodford, 1985).
6 were estimated using a DRY (hydrophobic) probe in the program GRID (Goodford, 1985).

index:48
The net charge on each of the dimers as calculated using GRIN (Goodford, 1985) are -7.38, -9.05, -11.23 and -13.21 for Wind-His, Y53F, Y53S and Y55K, respectively:
The net charge on each of the dimers as calculated using GRIN (Goodford, 1985) are 7.38, 9.05, 11.23 and 13.21 for Wind-His, Y53F, Y53S and Y55K, respectively: the two inactive mutants are appreFigure 5 ciably more polar.

index:49
We analyzed survival data by Kaplan-Meier analysis in Statview 5.0.
We analyzed survival data by Kaplan-Meier analysis in Statview 5.0.

index:50
Both Statview 5.0 and Prism GraphPad software were used for survival data and mortality curves analysis.
Both Statview 5.0 and Prism GraphPad software were used for survival data and mortality curves analysis.

index:51
Censored data were recorded and analyzed with GraphPad software.
Censored data were recorded and analyzed with GraphPad software.

index:52
Similar increases in NF1 protein levels were generated by both the heat shock and GAL4-UAS systems, detected by western blot measured using Image J densitometry analysis, mean ± SD of 3 experiments (*:P < 0.05, t - test).
Similar increases in NF1 protein levels were generated by both the heat shock and GAL4-UAS systems, detected by western blot measured using Image J densitometry analysis, mean ± SD of 3 experiments (*: P < 0.05, t - test).

index:53
Similar levels of dephosphorylated FOXO were found for w1118, K33 and hsNF1/+;K33, verified by Image J densitometry analysis in 3 experiments, one example shown.
Similar levels of dephosphorylated FOXO were found for w1118, K33 and hsNF1/+;K33, verified by Image J densitometry analysis in 3 experiments, one example shown.

index:54
The statistical tests were performed using MorphoCode, an open-source software program that implements the gap weighting method (Schols et al., 2004).
The statistical tests were performed using MorphoCode, an open-source software program that implements the gap weighting method (Schols et al., 2004).

index:55
In order to evaluate our search strategy, we first analyzed the original SEA matrix using PAUP*4.0b10 (Swofford, 2002) to compare our trees with the SEA topologies.
In order to evaluate our search strategy, we ﬁrst analyzed the original SEA matrix using PAUP*4.0b10 (Swoﬀord, 2002) to compare our trees with the SEA topologies.

index:56
The final cladogram figures were made using MacClade 4.04 (Maddison and Maddison, 2005) and edited with Adobe InDesign CS.
The ﬁnal cladogram ﬁgures were made using MacClade 4.04 (Maddison and Maddison, 2005) and edited with Adobe InDesign CS.

index:57
Logistic regression in STATA (http://www.stata.com) with software written by David Clayton for use within that package (http://www.gene.cimr.cam.ac.uk/clayton/software/stata) was used to test for association and calculate odds ratios (ORs) at all loci (10).
com) with software written by David Clayton for use within that package (http://www.gene.cimr.cam.ac.uk/clayton/software/ stata) was used to test for association and calculate odds ratios (ORs) at all loci (10).

index:58
Haplotypes were recon-structed in PHASE version 2.1.1 (32,33).
Haplotypes were reconstructed in PHASE version 2.1.1 (32,33).

index:59
Data analysis using descriptive statistics, geNorm, NormFinder and qBasePlus indicated significant difference in variances between candidate EC genes.
Data analysis using descriptive statistics, geNorm, NormFinder and qBasePlus indicated significant difference in variances between candidate EC genes.

index:60
Stability was further evaluated using qBasePlus [8,36], a commer- cially available RQ-PCR data mining package.
Stability was further evaluated using qBasePlus [8,36], a commercially available RQ-PCR data mining package.

index:61
The stability of candidate EC genes was analysed using geNorm [8] and NormFinder [35] programmes.
The stability of candidate EC genes was analysed using geNorm [8] and NormFinder [35] programmes.

index:62
In the case of GeNorm the variable V indi- cating the pairwise variation (Vn/Vn+1) between two sequential normalisation factors (NFn/NFn+1) indicated that three EC genes was the optimal number of genes for accurate normalisation (figure 2), however, target genes expression did not differ significantly if two rather than three EC genes were used (figure 3).
In the case of GeNorm the variable V indicating the pairwise variation (Vn/Vn+1) between two sequential normalisation factors (NFn/NFn+1) indicated that three EC genes was the optimal number of genes for accurate normalisation (figure 2), however, target genes expression did not differ significantly if two rather than three EC genes were used (figure 3).

index:63
Since both geNorm and NormFinder are based on the assumption that candidate genes are not differen- tially expressed between samples, this was an important first step prior to their continued use [9,10].
Since both geNorm and NormFinder are based on the assumption that candidate genes are not differentially expressed between samples, this was an important first step prior to their continued use [9,10].

index:64
In the present study the stability of expression of candi- date EC genes was determined using a pair-wise com- parison model: geNorm [8] and an MS Excel ANOVA based model, NormFinder [35].
In the present study the stability of expression of candidate EC genes was determined using a pair-wise comparison model: geNorm [8] and an MS Excel ANOVA based model, NormFinder [35].

index:66
No significant difference in target gene expression was observed when the top three most stable EC genes identified by geNorm were used confirming that using of a pair of genes may be more practicable given cost, work load and sample availability considerations.
No significant difference in target gene expression was observed when the top three most stable EC genes identified by geNorm were used confirming that using of a pair of genes may be more practicable given cost, work load and sample availability considerations.

index:67
In this study GeNorm was used to identify the most stably expressed EC genes from our panel of candidates and also provided a measure of the optimal number of EC genes.
In this study GeNorm was used to identify the most stably expressed EC genes from our panel of candidates  and also provided a measure of the optimal number of EC genes.

index:68
In this study NormFinder was used to define the best combination of genes using tumour and normal as group identifiers in the calculations
In this study NormFinder was used to define the best combination of genes using tumour and normal as group identifiers in  Kheirelseid et al.

index:69
NormFinder was designed to identify EC genes with the lowest stability values; these values are calculated based on intra- and inter-group variation.
NormFinder was designed to identify EC genes with the lowest stability values; these values are calculated based on intra- and inter-group variation.

index:70
QBasePlus was used to confirm our selection of the B2M and PPIA pairing as the best combination of ECs in colorectal tissue.
QBasePlus was used to confirm our selection of the B2M and PPIA pairing as the best combination of ECs in colorectal tissue.

index:71
QBasePlus real-time PCR data manager programme was developed based on geNorm and qBase [36] algorithms.
QBasePlus real-time PCR data manager programme was developed based on geNorm and qBase [36] algorithms.

index:72
Expression stability of the control genes as calculated by geNorm.
Expression stability of the control genes as calculated by geNorm.

index:73
Figure 2 Analysis of candidate EC genes using geNorm.
BMC Molecular Biology 2010, 11:12 http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2199/11/12  Page 6 of 13  Figure 2 Analysis of candidate EC genes using geNorm.

index:74
In this instance, the GeNorm output file indicated that the optimal number of genes required for normalisation was three.
In this instance, the GeNorm output file indicated that the optimal number of genes required for normalisation was three.

index:75
The GeNorm programme calculates a normalisation factor (NF) which is used to determine the optimal number of EC genes required for accurate normalisation.
The GeNorm programme calculates a normalisation factor (NF) which is used to determine the optimal number of EC genes required for accurate normalisation.

index:76
Table 3 Ranking and best combination of EC genes as determined by geNorm, NormFinder and qBasePlus.
We used  Table 3 Ranking and best combination of EC genes as determined by geNorm, NormFinder and qBasePlus.

index:77
For geNorm stability was based on the estimation of pair-wise variation.
For geNorm stability was based on the estimation of pair-wise variation.

index:78
For GeNorm, lower stability values (M) indicate greater stability.
In the case of NormFinder, stability is calculated from inter- and intra-group variation.

index:79
In the case of NormFinder, stability is calculated from inter- and intra-group variation.
In the case of NormFinder, stability is calculated from inter- and intra-group variation.

index:80
QBasePlus through its components, geNorm and qBase, identified coefficient of variation (CV) and stability (M) values and thereby the best combination of genes for normalisation only when more than one gene is used.
QBasePlus through its components, geNorm and qBase, identified coefficient of variation (CV) and stability (M) values and thereby the best combination of genes for normalisation only when more than one gene is used.

index:81
An RNA integrity number (RIN) was generated for each sample using the Agilent 2100 Expert Software (Version B.02.03) based on the ratio of ribosomal bands and also the presence or absence of degradation products on the electrophoretic and gel-like images.
An RNA integrity number (RIN) was generated for each sample using the Agilent 2100 Expert Software (Version B.02.03) based on the ratio of ribosomal bands and also the presence or absence of degradation products on the electrophoretic and gel-like images.

index:82
QBasePlus was used for calculation of PDCD4 expression relative to each of the EC genes.
We also conducted equivalence testing to confirm the equality of expression of each EC gene.

index:83
Stability of the EC genes expression was evaluated with two freely available statistical models, geNorm and NormFinder.
Stability of the EC genes expression was evaluated with two freely available statistical models, geNorm and NormFinder.

index:84
It is further validated with qBasePlus.
It is further validated with qBasePlus.

index:85
Sta- tistical analysis was carried out with Minitab® 15 (Mini- tab Ltd, Coventry, UK).
Statistical analysis was carried out with Minitab® 15 (Minitab Ltd, Coventry, UK).

